Trip Helper  
 
                                               
Objective ➖ 
This document is about the new product known as “Trip Helper”. Trip Helper is a product that 
helps travelers plan and execute road trips with confidence by providing accurate expense 
estimations and real-time information. It empowers users to make informed decisions, optimize 
their budget, and enjoy a stress-free journey. 
​  
Target Audience ➖ 

●​ Frequent travelers to new locations and destinations 
●​ Occasional travelers 
●​ New users who are traveling to new destinations 

 
Why ? 
This product is needed for  people who are traveling by road and don’t know about the toll and 
price of fuel in those locations. This product can help them to tell the expenses of traveling to 
that location. As it can tell the particular toll pierce and distance . It will tell users the fuel price 
and give users an average of how much users are gonna spend on fuel while traveling. 
Unpredictable expenses: Fluctuating fuel prices, hidden tolls, and unknown meal costs can 
strain travel budgets. 
Route uncertainty: Choosing the optimal route considering distance, tolls, and fuel efficiency can 
be challenging. 
 
 
Core features:-  
expenses 

●​ In-trip expenses: Trip helper will help user know about the expenses of  the trip:- 
1.​ Toll expenses:  Locate tolls on the chosen route, predict toll costs and give the 

distance of the toll. 
2.​ Fuel expenses: Estimate fuel consumption based on chosen car, route distance, 

and real-time fuel prices at nearby stations. 
3.​ Food expenses: Suggest meal options and estimate food costs based on travel 

duration and number of people. 
Emergency 

●​ Ambulance/Medical help: helpline number to call the ambulance or any other medical 
help and contact the nearest hospital. 

●​ Mechanic: helpline number of the (brand) mechanic of the vehicle in case of vehicle 
failure or any other issue. 

●​ Police: helpline number of the police or contact to the nearest police station. 
●​ Locate nearby washrooms: Identify restrooms at petrol pumps or hotels along the route. 

 
technology Stack  
 
Front-end:  

Trip Helper By Anush Gupta



 Trip Helper  
 
Back-end: 
Database:  
APIs:  
 
Metrics:-  

●​ How many time users are clicking on the trip helper icon 
●​ How many users are searching for the directions  
●​ How many people are clicking on the from and to bar 
●​ How many people are seeing the toll prices  
●​ How many users are seeing fuel prices 
●​ How many people are using the emergency section 
●​ How users are rating and writing the reviews . 

 
ui/ux:- 

●​ Easy to navigate for users 
●​ Easy to use  
●​ Route summary: Provide a concise overview of the chosen route, including distance, 

time, tolls, and fuel stops. 
 

 
working /flow:- 
https://app.visily.ai/projects/18a06299-b85d-420b-ade6-dfc25cd86c0d/boards/739397 

●​ When the user clicks on the trip helper and then directed  
●​ Display "From" and "To" fields for location input. 

1.​ If the user has enabled the location, a popup will come asking to turn on the 
location. 

2.​ If the user's location is on then it will automatically show the user’s location in the 
search box 

3.​ A page will come which consists of from/to, select car, number of people 
traveling. 

4.​ If the user has come before then it will show his previous search then when the 
user has clicked on the search destination a page will come up that will show the 
user's previous search. 

5.​ If the user has come for the first time/has not enabled the location then it will 
show the user the popular route that has the most traffic. 

●​ The user has to select the car. 
●​ No of people traveling will default to 2. 
●​ Then the user will click on “calculate my trip” and an error will pop up if the user has put 

in some incorrect data. 
Some errors are:- 

1.​ If the user has put the same location in from and to then it will show the user an error 
then ask the user to correct it 

Trip Helper By Anush Gupta



 Trip Helper  
 

2.​ If the user has put the wrong location then it will show the user an error and ask to put 
the correct location 

3.​ If user has put a location which route has no toll then it will show error and not go to the 
second page 

●​ If all the data is correct then the user clicks on calculate my trip it will show a second 
page where the map and all the information will be there. 

●​ On the next page or map page at the top, the distance points a, and b, and the time to 
reach the destination will also be mentioned. 

●​ 30% of the screen will consist of a map then the bottom of the map will show all the total 
expenses and price/number of toll, petrol, food, car details, and fastag details. 

●​ Map consists of a different route then the user will select a route and it will show all the 
toll and fuel stations on the route. 

●​ At the bottom there will be a section with the total cost of the trip it will calculate all the 
toll costs and petrol costs then show the price 

●​ Then at the bottom of that no of toll and total price of toll will be mentioned and then if 
the user clicks on it. it will show all the details of the toll, their prices, and location. 

●​ If the user has not selected any car no car will be shown then there will be an option to 
add a car. Which user can add a car. 

●​ There will be a section for fuel which will show the fuel price depending on the car the 
user has selected. It will also show the user’s car brand, car number, fastag balance, 
and recharge option .Then if the user clicks on the petrol charges option it will show the 
user the car mileage and all the petrol pumps which will be on the route and their 
information. 

●​ There will be a food option that will show the food price depending on the number of 
people traveling. If the user clicks on it, it will direct the user to the front page where the 
user can again choose the number of people traveling. 

●​ A review option will be there where the user will put a review if there is anything wrong or 
any information is incorrect which can help in the development of the product .it will 
consist of yes/no which if the user clicks on yes a thank you sign will come but if the user 
has clicked on no then a review box will come to ask for the review/wrong thing. 

●​ the user scrolls to the bottom it will show the user the emergency number which can help 
in the trip when needed. which consist of ambulance and police numbers. 

●​ At the bottom, there will be an emergency service where users can get the brand service 
number at the time of need. 

●​ Coming soon 
●​ there will be a section which can help users call the mechanic.The mechanic can come 

to the user’s location to help the user . 
●​ Review and feedback: Users can rate the app, report issues, and provide feedback on 

toll/fuel accuracy. 
  
 
Product to work on:- 

●​ Time for the travel according to the distance  

Trip Helper By Anush Gupta



 Trip Helper  
 

●​ Toll 
 Multiple route from point A to B 
0- error show 
1-show the route 
More than 1 route- chose and show that route and show time to reach the distance    

●​ Food 
Person wise and time of travel 
0-6 hours of travel - 2/per - ₹500 - depend on the break and the travel time 
8-10 hours of travel - 2/per - ₹1000- depend on the break and the travel time 
10-more hours of travel - 2/per - ₹1500- depend on the break and the travel time 

●​ Fuel  
Check the car and mileage 
Fuel price in different cities and compare them 

●​ from/to 
First time popular 
Second time there previous 

●​ Review box  
It will be at toll price/fuel if there is an issue. 
yes/no for any issue. 
It can be related to the toll price or any other or if it is showing toll but there is no toll   

            user can type the review  
●​  

 
Thing to ask :- 

●​  Location  
●​ Fastag 

 
 
 
  

Future Development:- 
●​ Restrooms 
●​ Food prices checker  
●​ Sideway motel 

Trip Helper By Anush Gupta